This repository contains a curated dataset from ChEMBL, dataset of virtually screened and predicted compounds against EGFR (Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor) and HER2 (Human Epidermal growth factor Receptor 2) inhibitors. 
The final dataset was generated using a stacking ensemble of machine learning models to virtually screen compounds from the LOTUS database.

Dataset Contents

The dataset includes the following columns:

Canonical SMILES: SMILES representations of the compounds' molecular structures.

Lotus ID: Unique identifier for each compound in the dataset.

Fingerprints: Various molecular fingerprints used for feature extraction, including but not limited to MACCS, CDK, and other topological descriptors.

Class: Predicted bioactivity of each compound:

1: Active inhibitor (EGFR or HER2)
0: Inactive compound

Prediction Probability: Probability score associated with the predicted class, indicating the confidence level of each classification.

Purpose

This virtually screened dataset was generated by harnessing a stacking ensemble of machine learning models for the virtual screening of compounds from the LOTUS database. 
The goal is to predict the bioactivity of these compounds as either active or inactive inhibitors of EGFR and HER2, which are important targets for cancer therapy.

Code Files

Harnessing ML HER2_erbB2.ipynb: 
This notebook contains the machine learning pipeline for training and evaluating models on the dataset. It includes data preprocessing, feature extraction, model training, and evaluation using the stacking ensemble approach.

LOTUS_Virtual_Screening.ipynb: 
This notebook focuses on virtual screening of compounds from the LOTUS database using the trained models. It applies the machine learning models to predict the activity of new compounds and assess their potential as EGFR and HER2 inhibitors.

How to Use This Repository
Clone the Repository:
To access the dataset and code, clone this repository to your local machine:

git clone

[https://github.com/yourusername/EGFR-HER2-Inhibitors.git](https://github.com/dbntoku/JCIM_ML_EGFR_HER2_/tree/main)

Explore the Data:

Open the CSV file in Microsoft excel, or load it into a data analysis tool like Python explore and analyze the data.

Run the Notebooks:

Open Harnessing ML HER2_erbB2.ipynb for model training and evaluation on google colab.

Open LOTUS_Virtual_Screening.ipynb for virtual screening predictions on google colab (The final stacking_classifier.pkl is too large to be uploaded here)-a webserver wil be made available.

Ensure that the necessary dependencies (like scikit-learn, pandas, and other relevant libraries) are installed in your Python environment.

Data Preprocessing:

Combine EGFR&HER2 Data has been curated and preprocessed to ensure consistency. However, feel free to adapt or reprocess the data as needed for your research or modeling.

Licensing
The data in this repository is provided for academic and research purposes only. Please cite the repository in any research publications using the dataset.
